### What are ACID properties, and why are they important?
In relational databases, transactions must be atomic, consistent, isolated and durable. These properties are commonly abbreviated as ACID. ACID properties ensure that a database transaction is processed reliably. In this section, let’s learn a bit more about what these properties mean for the application.
1. Atomicity
Atomicity in terms of a transaction means all or nothing. When a transaction is committed, the database either completes the transaction successfully or rolls it back so that the database returns to its original state. For example, in an online ticketing application, a booking may consist of two separate actions that form a transaction — reserving the seat for the customer and paying for the seat. A transaction guarantees that when a booking is completed, both these actions, although independent, happen within the same transaction. If any of the actions fail, the entire transaction is rolled back, and the booking is freed up for another transaction attempting to take it.
2. Consistency
One of the key advantages of using a transaction is maintaining data integrity, regardless of whether it succeeds or fails. Transactions can only alter affected data in a way that is authorized by the database engine, ensuring that a consistent view of the data is maintained at all times. For example, when users deposit money in an online banking app, they want to see the result of this deposit reflected immediately when they view their balance. To ensure their money has not been lost. With strong transactional consistency, there should never appear to be more or less money in aggregate in the bank than there is.
ONCE A TRANSACTION COMMITS, IT IS GUARANTEED THAT ANY SUBSEQUENT READ-WRITE TRANSACTION — NO MATTER WHICH REPLICA IS PROCESSING IT — WILL READ ALL DATA THAT WAS WRITTEN BY THE EARLIER TRANSACTION. HOWEVER, WHEN IT COMES TO LARGE-SCALE DATABASES WITH MULTIPLE REPLICAS ACROSS MULTIPLE GEO-LOCATIONS, MOST SQL AND NOSQL SYSTEMS CANNOT GUARANTEE GLOBAL REPLICA CONSISTENCY. INSTEAD, THEY ALLOW REPLICAS TO DIVERGE TEMPORARILY, AND THE RESULT OF A TRANSACTION MAY VARY DEPENDING ON WHICH REPLICA IT IS SENT TO.
3. Isolation
With multiple concurrent transactions running at the same time, each transaction should be kept independent without affecting other transactions executing simultaneously. For most database systems, the order of the transactions is not known in advance. Transactions are instead run in parallel, and some form of database locking is utilized to ensure that the result of one transaction does not impact that of another. Typically, databases offer several isolation levels to control the degree of transactional integrity.
IN RECENT YEARS, NOSQL DATABASES HAVE GAINED IN POPULARITY. SOME OF THESE DATABASES OFFER ACID COMPLIANCE, BUT MANY DO NOT AND SACRIFICE SOME CONSISTENCY OR INSTEAD OFFER PROCESSES LIKE SNAPSHOT ISOLATION. WHEN ARCHITECTING FOR YOUR APPLICATION AND CONSIDERING NOSQL DATABASES, PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO HOW IT HANDLES TRANSACTIONS AND WHETHER IT SATISFIES YOUR REQUIREMENTS FOR DATA INTEGRITY.
4. Durability
Durability means that a successful transaction commit will survive permanently. To accomplish this, an entry is added to the database transaction log for each successful transaction.
