## Running Containers
To start a new container, we use the docker run command followed by the image name. The basic syntax is as follows:
```
docker run [options] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]
```
For example, to run the official Nginx image, we would use:
```
docker run -d -p 8080:80 nginx
```
This starts a new container and maps the host’s port 8080 to the container’s port 80.

### Listing Containers
To list all running containers, use the docker ps command. To view all containers (including those that have stopped), use the -a flag:

```
docker container ls -a
```
### Accessing Containers
To access a running container’s shell, use the docker exec command:

```
docker exec -it CONTAINER_ID bash
```
Replace CONTAINER_ID with the ID or name of your desired container. You can find this in the output of docker ps.

### Stopping Containers
To stop a running container, use the docker stop command followed by the container ID or name:
```
docker container stop CONTAINER_ID
```
### Removing Containers
Once a container is stopped, we can remove it using the docker rm command followed by the container ID or name:
```
docker container rm CONTAINER_ID
```
To automatically remove containers when they exit, add the --rm flag when running a container:
```
docker run --rm IMAGE
```

## Running Containers with docker run
In this section, we’ll discuss the docker run command, which enables you to run Docker containers. The docker run command creates a new container from the specified image and starts it.

The basic syntax for the docker run command is as follows:
```
docker run [OPTIONS] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]
```
- OPTIONS: These are command-line flags that can be used to adjust the container’s settings, like memory constraints, ports, environment variables, etc.
- IMAGE: The Docker image that the container will run. This can be an image from Docker Hub or your own image that is stored locally.
- COMMAND: This is the command that will be executed inside the container when it starts. If not specified, the default entrypoint of the image will be used.
- ARG...: These are optional arguments that can be passed to the command being executed.
### Commonly used Options
Here are some commonly used options with docker run:

- --name: Assign a name to the container, making it easier to identify and manage.
- -p, --publish: Publish a container’s port(s) to the host. This is useful when you want to access the services running inside the container from outside the container.
- -e, --env: Set environment variables inside the container. You can use this option multiple times to set multiple variables.
- -d, --detach: Run the container in detached mode, running the container in the background and not showing logs in the console.
- -v, --volume: Bind mount a volume from the host to the container. This is helpful in persisting data generated by the container or sharing files between host and container.
### Examples
Here are some sample commands to help you understand how to use docker run:

- Run an interactive session of an Ubuntu container:
```
docker run -it --name=my-ubuntu ubuntu
```
- Run an Nginx web server and publish the port 80 on the host:
```
docker run -d --name=my-nginx -p 80:80 nginx
```
- Run a MySQL container with custom environment variables for configuring the database:
```
docker run -d --name=my-mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret -e MYSQL_DATABASE=mydb -p 3306:3306 mysql
```
- Run a container with a bind-mounted volume:
```
docker run -d --name=my-data -v /path/on/host:/path/in/container some-image
```
