## Infrastructure Monitoring
Monitoring refers to the practice of making the performance and status of infrastructure visible. This section contains common tools used for monitoring.

This is a very vendor-heavy space - use caution when studying materials exclusively from a given product or project, as there are many conflicting opinions and strategies in use. There is no single solution for the most substantially complex internet-facing applications, so understanding the pros and cons of these tools will be useful in helping you plan how to monitor a system for a given goal.

1. Automate where possible: Using highly automated infrastructure monitoring solutions is key for large and dynamic environments. Manual configuration and instrumentation of monitoring capabilities is prohibitively labor-intensive. Teams find themselves unable to instrument parts of their infrastructure and struggling to keep monitoring agents up to date. Auto-deployment, auto-configuration and auto-baselining, on the other hand, enable organizations to widen the scope of the metrics they can capture, eliminate blind spots, and achieve end-to-end observability in cloud native infrastructure stacks. This leads to higher-quality monitoring capabilities and generates more precise, in-context insights. With enhanced data, teams can address issues faster, resulting in better customer experiences. Reducing human intervention frees up time for teams to focus on more productive tasks that accelerate transformation and modernization initiatives.
2. Invest time in configuring alerts: It’s worth outlining which kinds of alerts teams need so they can identify issues as quickly as possible. Without a solid alert configuration, teams become overwhelmed in establishing the problem and identifying whether multiple alerts are related to the same issue. Alert specificity improves accuracy and reduces false positives. A well-planned alert mechanism can reduce response times and help teams solve root causes faster, improving uptime. For maximum effectiveness, auto-baselining capabilities can reduce the need for alert configuration significantly, with the ability to automatically eliminate false positives, perform automatic root-cause-analysis and prioritize alerts based on business impact.
3. Create priority levels: Grouping alerts according to business impact helps teams focus their efforts on the most severe problems first. This approach takes the guesswork out of deciding how important a notification is, which saves teams time and stress. It’s also possible to direct alerts to different channels. A company, for example, could configure its IT service management (ITSM) system to send high-priority alerts via SMS to an on-call engineer’s smartphone and low-priority issues by email. For businesses with round-the-clock on-call engineers, prioritization reduces alert fatigue and team disruption in off-hours.
4. Set up custom dashboards: Ensure the right people have access to the monitoring data they need by creating role-specific dashboards. Different teams within an organization may need to view infrastructure monitoring reports for varying purposes. For example, ITOps engineers are likely to have different key performance indicators (KPIs) from the IT security team, the marketing department, and business executives. Identify which insights stakeholders find most valuable and which are unnecessary for their role. Set up custom dashboards for each group that display only relevant data. (However, it is key that the underlying data for all the dashboards is coherent and based on the same data model.)
5. Test the system: Most businesses would never launch a system or deploy a major change without thoroughly testing it. Infrastructure monitoring is no exception. Identify the most likely scenarios and design a testing framework to ensure that infrastructure monitoring solutions perform as expected. The safest way to do so is within a designated testing environment to prevent production — and customers — from being affected. Teams can then fine-tune the setup and alert configuration to make sure everything works as expected.
6. Routinely check metrics and KPIs: Objectives and goals continually evolve, so it’s essential to regularly review metrics to ensure infrastructure monitoring solutions generate the data and insights that every stakeholder needs. It is also beneficial to evaluate KPIs and work with teams to identify new benchmarks to establish in the future. As an organization moves further along its digital transformation journey, new infrastructure blind spots will emerge. Regular metric reviews can avoid unintentional oversight and ensure that full visibility is maintained throughout the infrastructure stack.
7. Leverage vendor know-how and resources: Organizations that struggle to refine their monitoring setup or lack internal know-how or experience can enlist a vendor for support. Vendor experts will have expertise in industry best practices and be familiar with issues a team is grappling with. Tapping into vendor expertise can help a team reach its monitoring goals faster while also enhancing in-house skills.