## Asymptotic Notation
In computer science, asymptotic notation is used to describe the efficiency of algorithms for large inputs. It is the mathematical notation of the growth rate of an algorithm’s time complexity. The most commonly used notations are O-notation (Big O), Ω-notation (Omega), and Θ-notation (Theta). Big O notation provides an upper bound of the complexity in the worst-case, giving an approximated maximum amount of time taken by an algorithm for any input. Omega notation provides a lower bound of the complexity in the best-case, whereas Theta notation defines a tight bound giving both the lower and upper bound. These notational systems allow for a comparison of the efficiency of algorithms without considering the effect of hardware or software related factors.


### Big O Notation
”Big O” notation, officially known as O-notation, is used in computer science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm. Specifically, it provides an upper bound on the time complexity, describing the worst-case scenario. Thus, it gives an upper limit on the time taken for an algorithm to complete based on the size of the input. The notation is expressed as O(f(n)), where f(n) is a function that measures the largest count of steps that an algorithm could possibly take to solve a problem of size n. For instance, O(n) denotes a linear relationship between the time taken and the input size, while O(1) signifies constant time complexity, i.e., the time taken is independent of input size. Remember, Big O notation is only an approximation meant to describe the scaling of the algorithm and not the exact time taken.

### Big-θ Notation
Big Theta (\Theta) notation is used in computer science to describe an asymptotic tight bound on a function. This essentially means it provides both an upper and lower bound for a function. When we say a function f(n) is (\Theta(g(n))), we mean that the growth rate of f(n) is both bounded above and below by the function g(n) after a certain point. This is more precise than Big O and Big Omega notation, which provide only an upper and a lower bound, respectively. Big Theta notation tells us exactly how a function behaves for large input values. For example, if an algorithm has a time complexity of (\Theta(n^2)), it means the running time will increase quadratically with the input size.

### Big-Ω Notation
The Big Omega (Ω) notation is used in computer science to describe an algorithm’s lower bound. Essentially, it provides a worst-case analysis of an algorithm’s efficiency, giving us a lower limit of the performance. If we say a function f(n) is Ω(g(n)), it means that from a certain point onwards (n0 for some constant n0), the value of g(n) is a lower bound on f(n). It implies that f(n) is at least as fast as g(n) past a certain threshold. This means that the algorithm won’t perform more efficiently than the Ω time complexity suggests.

