## Logs Management
Log management is the process of handling log events generated by all software applications and infrastructure on which they run. It involves log collection, aggregation, parsing, storage, analysis, search, archiving, and disposal, with the ultimate goal of using the data for troubleshooting and gaining business insights, while also ensuring the compliance and security of applications and infrastructure.
## Log Management Basics: What Is a Log File?
A log file is a text file where applications, including the operating system, write events. Logs show you what happened behind the scenes and when it happened so that if something should go wrong with your systems you have a detailed record of every action prior to the anomaly.

Therefore, log files make it easier for developers, DevOps, SysAdmins, or SecOps to get insights and identify the root cause of issues with applications and infrastructure.
### Network Gear
As we interact with mobile apps, web apps, websites, etc., we generate a lot of network traffic. The network gear - network routers, network switches and so on - can generate logs about this traffic. Unlike server and application logs that tend to use more modern formats and increasingly more structured logs, the network gear still uses various kinds of Syslog.

### Server and Application Logs
Traditional sources of log events are servers and applications running on those servers. The kernel emits log messages such as which drivers it loads, if the OOM killer was invoked, and so on. Then there are system services like when a user logged in. This information helps you diagnose stability and security issues, as well as system-level performance bottlenecks. Is the kernel sending SYN cookies? It could be an attack or the network may be overloaded.

As for applications, you may have Nginx logs, a Java web application running in an Apache Tomcat or a PHP application running in Apache web server. They will emit various informative, error, or debug log events.

Some of these logs use standardized formats, like Common Log Format, while others use various custom formats, including various structured logging formats, like key=value or even JSON logs.

If you write your own application, we strongly suggest a structured logging format. It's much easier to parse down the pipeline.

Here are a few logging guides that will help you learn how you can work with application logs:

- Apache logs
- RabbitMQ logs
- Node.js logs
- Java logs
- Linux Logs
- PostgeSQL logs
### Container Logs
Nowadays more and more applications are deployed in containers. As such, containers and applications running inside them are another big source of logs. Unlike traditional apps and servers, and certainly network gear, containers are very “promiscuous”. Container orchestration frameworks like Kubernetes move containers from host to host, adapting to demand and resource availability. An average container's lifespan is shorter than that of a firefly or a bee.

On top of that the practice to “ssh in”, poke around, tail, and grep the logs to troubleshoot was deemed a bad practice in the cloud-native world. Hence various Docker monitoring and log management challenges require new approaches and new Docker log management tools.

If you want to learn more about container logs, check out our tutorials on:

- Docker logging
- Kubernetes logging
### Mobile Devices and App Logs
Mobile apps and devices are ubiquitous. You may not think of them as sources of logs because you can't (easily) access system or application logs on an iOS or Android device. Limited disk space and unreliable network mean you can't log verbose messages locally, and you can't assume you'll ship logs to a central location in real time.

In spite of those challenges, it's important to know if a mobile app crashes and why. Beyond this, how the app behaves and performs. Typically, you'd buffer up to N messages locally, and ship them to a centralized logging service. This is what Sematext Cloud libraries for Android and iOS do.

### Sensors, IoT, Industrial IoT
In the consumer space we have sensors in cars, smart thermostats, internet-connected fridges, and other smart-home devices and, on a bigger scale, smart cities.

The Industrial Internet of Things, or IIoT, connects machines and devices in industries such as transportation, power generation, manufacturing, and healthcare.

Typically, we're interested in metrics generated by these devices. For example, we collect some air pollution levels (PM2.5, PM10) and send them to Sematext Cloud. But logs emitted from these devices are important as well: did this sensor start correctly? Does it need recalibration? How many times did sensors fail in the last 6 months? Based on this information, what is the most reliable manufacturer? These are just some examples of metadata that can be extracted from IoT logs.