## Serverless
Serverless architecture (also known as serverless computing or function as a service, FaaS) is a software design pattern where applications are hosted by a third-party service, eliminating the need for server software and hardware management by the developer. Applications are broken up into individual functions that can be invoked and scaled individually.

Serverless architectures are application designs that incorporate third-party “Backend as a Service” (BaaS) services, and/or that include custom code run in managed, ephemeral containers on a “Functions as a Service” (FaaS) platform. By using these ideas, and related ones like single-page applications, such architectures remove much of the need for a traditional always-on server component. Serverless architectures may benefit from significantly reduced operational cost, complexity, and engineering lead time, at a cost of increased reliance on vendor dependencies and comparatively immature supporting services.


### Why use serverless architectures?
By using a serverless architecture, your developers can focus on their core product instead of worrying about managing and operating servers or runtimes, either in the cloud or on-premises. This reduced overhead lets developers reclaim time and energy that can be spent on developing great products which scale and that are reliable.
### Use cases of serverless architectures
In this whitepaper, we show how you can build web applications and mobile backends in a faster, more agile way. We introduce how you can use cloud services like AWS Lambda, Amazon API Gateway, and Amazon DynamoDB to implement serverless architectural patterns that reduce the operational complexity of running and managing applications.

- Serverless was first used to describe applications that significantly or fully incorporate third-party, cloud-hosted applications and services, to manage server-side logic and state. These are typically “rich client” applications—think single-page web apps, or mobile apps—that use the vast ecosystem of cloud-accessible databases (e.g., Parse, Firebase), authentication services (e.g., Auth0, AWS Cognito), and so on. These types of services have been previously described as “(Mobile) Backend as a Service", and I use "BaaS" as shorthand in the rest of this article.
- Serverless can also mean applications where server-side logic is still written by the application developer, but, unlike traditional architectures, it’s run in stateless compute containers that are event-triggered, ephemeral (may only last for one invocation), and fully managed by a third party. One way to think of this is “Functions as a Service” or "FaaS". (Note: The original source for this name—a tweet by @marak—is no longer publicly available.) AWS Lambda is one of the most popular implementations of a Functions-as-a-Service platform at present, but there are many others, too.

BaaS and FaaS are related in their operational attributes (e.g., no resource management) and are frequently used together. The large cloud vendors all have “Serverless portfolios” that include both BaaS and FaaS products—for example, here’s Amazon’s Serverless product page. Google’s Firebase BaaS database has explicit FaaS support through Google Cloud Functions for Firebase.

more on https://martinfowler.com/articles/serverless.html